README.md, before:

[![build](https://github.com/galacticcouncil/Basilisk-api/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/galacticcouncil/Basilisk-api/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![e2e test](https://github.com/galacticcouncil/Basilisk-api/actions/workflows/e2e.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/galacticcouncil/Basilisk-api/actions/workflows/e2e.yml)

# Basilisk API

This project serves as the API for [Basilisk's](https://bsx.fi) UIs, Dashboards and analytics.

## Prerequisites

-   Node v16.x
-   Docker
-   Built [Basilisk node](https://github.com/galacticcouncil/Basilisk-node) in `./../Basilisk-node`
-   Built [Polkadot node](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot) in `./../polkadot`

> ⚠️ Make sure to have both the `Basilisk-node` and `polkadot` accessible and built using `cargo build --release` in the aforementioned directories. Otherwise the testnet scripts available in `package.json` won't work.

## Quick start

```zsh
# Start the local basilisk testnet
yarn run testnet:start

# Start the local indexer targeting the basilisk node from the previous step
# If you need to debug the indexer, omit the `-d` option
yarn run indexer:start -- -d

# Prepare the dev environment for the processor
yarn run processor:clean-and-setup

# Start processing the indexed data
yarn run processor:start

# Start graphql server for processed data
yarn run processor:query-node:start
```

## Generate custom types

1. define custom types in `./chain/definitions.ts`
2. run `processor:gen-chain-types`

## Configuration

Project's configuration is driven by environment variables, defined in `.env`,
and `manifest.yml`. For more details see https://docs.subsquid.io.

## Local testnet

Run `yarn run testnet:start` and visit the [Polkadot apps](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=ws%3A%2F%2F127.0.0.1%3A9988#/explorer) UI to observe new blocks being produced after a while.

## Development indexer

Run `yarn run indexer:start` to start a local indexer, which will index the locally running Basilisk node.
Open [Graphiql Online](https://graphiql-online.com/graphiql) and use `http://localhost:4010/v1/graphql` as the GraphQL endpoint
to interact with the indexer.

You can run the following query to get started:

```
query MyQuery {
  indexerStatus {
    inSync
    lastComplete
    chainHeight
  }
}
```

### Apple M1 support

For Apple M1 support you need to build the indexer docker image locally:

```
git clone https://github.com/subsquid/hydra
cd hydra
git checkout v5
./scripts/docker-build.sh --target indexer-gateway -t subsquid/hydra-indexer-gateway:5
./scripts/docker-build.sh --target indexer -t subsquid/hydra-indexer:5
./scripts/docker-build.sh --target indexer-status-service -t subsquid/hydra-indexer-status-service:5
```

## Development processor

Run `yarn run processor:clean-and-setup` to setup the development environment. Then run `yarn run processor:start` to start the processor.

## Entity over time resolver

Resolvers have to be placed in the same module called `server-extension` ( `src/server-extension.ts` )

A generic factory is provided in order to simplify creation of 'Entity Over Time' resolvers. ( `src/resolvers/factory.ts` )

Model used in this resolver has to have at least one timestamp field.

Creating new resolver is simple as creating new class in the server-extension module:

```typescript

@Resolver()
export class TestBlockOverTimeResolver extends entityOverTimeResolverFactory<TestBlock>(
    EntityType,
    EntityModel,
    'resolverName',
    'db_name',
    'time_fieldname'
) {
}
```

### Parameters:

- `EntityType` is ObjectType class which will be returned from the resolver,eg:

```typescript
@ObjectType()
export class EntityType{

    @Field({nullable: false})
    block_height!: bigint

    @Field({nullable: false})
    created_at!: Date

    constructor(props: any) {
        Object.assign(this, props);
    }
}
```

- `EntityModel` is Entity type class representing model in the DB. This should be auto-generated from the given graphql schema. Eg:

```typescript
@Entity_()
export class EntityModel{
  constructor(props?: Partial<TestBlock>) {
    Object.assign(this, props)
  }

  @PrimaryColumn_()
  id!: string

  @Column_("numeric", {transformer: marshal.bigintTransformer, nullable: false})
  blockHeight!: bigint

  @Column_("timestamp with time zone", {nullable: false})
  createdAt!: Date
}
```

- `db_name` is exact table name in the database.
- `time_fieldname` is exact field name of timestamp field in the table.

## Testing

Make sure to have Basilisk-node with XYK pools enabled. Use `make build` to build `releases/testing-basilisk` binary and launch in `rococo-local` folder `polkadot-launch testing-config.json`.

Do not run `yarn run processor:query-node:start`, because we need to keep port `4000` free.

```
# migrate test data
yarn run migrate:test:e2e

# start indexer and processor
yarn run processor:clean-and-setup
yarn run indexer:start
yarn run processor:start

# run all tests
yarn run test

# alternative
yarn run test:unit
yarn run test:e2e
```

Commit message:

docs: update historical volume info

README.md, after:

[![build](https://github.com/galacticcouncil/Basilisk-api/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/galacticcouncil/Basilisk-api/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![e2e test](https://github.com/galacticcouncil/Basilisk-api/actions/workflows/e2e.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/galacticcouncil/Basilisk-api/actions/workflows/e2e.yml)

# Basilisk API

This project serves as the API for [Basilisk's](https://bsx.fi) UIs, Dashboards and analytics.

## Prerequisites

-   Node v16.x
-   Docker
-   Built [Basilisk node](https://github.com/galacticcouncil/Basilisk-node) in `./../Basilisk-node`
-   Built [Polkadot node](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot) in `./../polkadot`

> ⚠️ Make sure to have both the `Basilisk-node` and `polkadot` accessible and built using `cargo build --release` in the aforementioned directories. Otherwise the testnet scripts available in `package.json` won't work.

## Quick start

```zsh
# Start the local basilisk testnet
yarn run testnet:start

# Start the local indexer targeting the basilisk node from the previous step
# If you need to debug the indexer, omit the `-d` option
yarn run indexer:start -- -d

# Prepare the dev environment for the processor
yarn run processor:clean-and-setup

# Start processing the indexed data
yarn run processor:start

# Start graphql server for processed data
yarn run processor:query-node:start
```

## Generate custom types

1. define custom types in `./chain/definitions.ts`
2. run `processor:gen-chain-types`

## Configuration

Project's configuration is driven by environment variables, defined in `.env`,
and `manifest.yml`. For more details see https://docs.subsquid.io.

## Local testnet

Run `yarn run testnet:start` and visit the [Polkadot apps](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=ws%3A%2F%2F127.0.0.1%3A9988#/explorer) UI to observe new blocks being produced after a while.

## Development indexer

Run `yarn run indexer:start` to start a local indexer, which will index the locally running Basilisk node.
Open [Graphiql Online](https://graphiql-online.com/graphiql) and use `http://localhost:4010/v1/graphql` as the GraphQL endpoint
to interact with the indexer.

You can run the following query to get started:

```
query MyQuery {
  indexerStatus {
    inSync
    lastComplete
    chainHeight
  }
}
```

### Apple M1 support

For Apple M1 support you need to build the indexer docker image locally:

```
git clone https://github.com/subsquid/hydra
cd hydra
git checkout v5
./scripts/docker-build.sh --target indexer-gateway -t subsquid/hydra-indexer-gateway:5
./scripts/docker-build.sh --target indexer -t subsquid/hydra-indexer:5
./scripts/docker-build.sh --target indexer-status-service -t subsquid/hydra-indexer-status-service:5
```

## Development processor

Run `yarn run processor:clean-and-setup` to setup the development environment. Then run `yarn run processor:start` to start the processor.

## Entity over time resolver

Resolvers have to be placed in the same module called `server-extension` ( `src/server-extension.ts` )

A generic factory is provided in order to simplify creation of 'Entity Over Time' resolvers. ( `src/resolvers/factory.ts` )

Model used in this resolver has to have at least one timestamp field.

Creating new resolver is simple as creating new class in the server-extension module:

```typescript

@Resolver()
export class TestBlockOverTimeResolver extends entityOverTimeResolverFactory<TestBlock>(
    EntityType,
    EntityModel,
    'resolverName',
    'db_name',
    'time_fieldname'
) {
}
```

### Parameters:

- `EntityType` is ObjectType class which will be returned from the resolver,eg:

```typescript
@ObjectType()
export class EntityType{

    @Field({nullable: false})
    block_height!: bigint

    @Field({nullable: false})
    created_at!: Date

    constructor(props: any) {
        Object.assign(this, props);
    }
}
```

- `EntityModel` is Entity type class representing model in the DB. This should be auto-generated from the given graphql schema. Eg:

```typescript
@Entity_()
export class EntityModel{
  constructor(props?: Partial<TestBlock>) {
    Object.assign(this, props)
  }

  @PrimaryColumn_()
  id!: string

  @Column_("numeric", {transformer: marshal.bigintTransformer, nullable: false})
  blockHeight!: bigint

  @Column_("timestamp with time zone", {nullable: false})
  createdAt!: Date
}
```

- `db_name` is exact table name in the database.
- `time_fieldname` is exact field name of timestamp field in the table.

## Historical Volume

One Historical Volume exists per pool and block. The entity is created in two ways:
1. An asset transfer occurs *to* or *from* the `pool`. Each subsequent transfer within the same block updates the Historical Volume entity.
2. Post block hook creates Historical Volume entity only if no trading has happened in that block. The volume has initial values.

```typescript
// schema.graphql
type HistoricalVolume @entity {
    "PoolId-paraChainBlockHeight-volume"
    id: ID!
    assetAAmountIn: BigInt!
    assetAAmountOut: BigInt!
    assetBAmountIn: BigInt!
    assetBAmountOut: BigInt!
    createdAt: DateTime!
    pool: LBPPool! | XYKPool
    blockHeight: BlockHeightPairing!
}
// the actual implementation has HistoricalVolumeXYK and HistoricalVolumeLBP
```

## Testing

Make sure to have Basilisk-node with XYK pools enabled. Use `make build` to build `releases/testing-basilisk` binary and launch in `rococo-local` folder `polkadot-launch testing-config.json`.

Do not run `yarn run processor:query-node:start`, because we need to keep port `4000` free.

```
# migrate test data
yarn run migrate:test:e2e

# start indexer and processor
yarn run processor:clean-and-setup
yarn run indexer:start
yarn run processor:start

# run all tests
yarn run test

# alternative
yarn run test:unit
yarn run test:e2e
```
